tools/plugin-toolkit/README.md, before:

# Plugin Development Toolkit

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit)](https://www.npmjs.com/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit)&nbsp;
[![npm monthly downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit)](https://npmcharts.com/compare/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit?minimal=true)&nbsp;
![typescript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-first-blue?logo=typescript)

This package implements GoodData Plugin Development Toolkit (PDT). The primary entry point to the toolkit is its
CLI tool called `gdc-plugins`. Through this CLI tool you can currently:

-   Create a new project to develop a Dashboard Plugin
-   Add configuration for the Dashboard Plugin into a workspace of your choice
-   Configure an existing dashboard to use a Dashboard Plugin available in a workspace

Read more about Dashboard Plugins in [official documentation](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/dashboard_plugins.html).

## License

(C) 2017-2022 GoodData Corporation

This project is under MIT License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/gooddata/gooddata-ui-sdk/blob/master/tools/plugin-toolkit/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Reference the main repo from package READMEs
This makes it easier for users stumbling upon a package on npm
to get more context quickly.

JIRA: RAIL-4496

tools/plugin-toolkit/README.md, after:

# Plugin Development Toolkit

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit)](https://www.npmjs.com/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit)&nbsp;
[![npm monthly downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit)](https://npmcharts.com/compare/@gooddata/plugin-toolkit?minimal=true)&nbsp;
![typescript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-first-blue?logo=typescript)

This package is a part of the [GoodData.UI SDK](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/about_gooddataui.html).
To learn more, check [the source monorepo](https://github.com/gooddata/gooddata-ui-sdk).

This package implements GoodData Plugin Development Toolkit (PDT). The primary entry point to the toolkit is its
CLI tool called `gdc-plugins`. Through this CLI tool you can currently:

-   Create a new project to develop a Dashboard Plugin
-   Add configuration for the Dashboard Plugin into a workspace of your choice
-   Configure an existing dashboard to use a Dashboard Plugin available in a workspace

Read more about Dashboard Plugins in [official documentation](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/dashboard_plugins.html).

## License

(C) 2017-2022 GoodData Corporation

This project is under MIT License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/gooddata/gooddata-ui-sdk/blob/master/tools/plugin-toolkit/LICENSE).
