# GoodData.UI SDK - Developer Playground

This project contains a minimalistic application that you can use while developing and dev-testing a component. The application
only takes care of setting the backend and workspace context. Everything else is up to you.

Because the playground is part of the monorepo, all the SDK dependencies are linked into the app.
You can then benefit from a very convenient experience such as:

1.  Start the playground in dev mode - `npm run dev`
2.  Edit [`src/playground/Playground.tsx`](./src/playground/Playground.tsx) to include your component under development.
3.  Edit any file in the repository, and it will be immediately reflected in the playground with hot reload.

## Making Git ignore changes in the playground

The `src/playground` folder is excluded through [`.gitignore`](.gitignore),
and `Playground.tsx` file was force-added back to git.

Any new files you're creating in the `src/playground` should be ignored by default.

In order to ignore changes in the `Playground.tsx` file itself, you can run the following command:

```bash
cd examples/playground
git update-index --skip-worktree src/playground/Playground.tsx
```

## Set environment variables

To make the playground work, you should set the following environment variables either via command line or by
creating `.env` file based on `.env.template`. Note that `VITE_DASHBOARD`, `VITE_DASHBOARD_INITIAL_RENDER_MODE`,
and `VITE_INSIGHT` variables are optional.

```
VITE_BACKEND_URL=<your-backend-url>
VITE_TIGER_API_TOKEN=<your-token>
VITE_WORKSPACE=<your-workspace>
VITE_DASHBOARD=<your-dashboard>
VITE_DASHBOARD_INITIAL_RENDER_MODE=<view|edit|export>
VITE_INSIGHT=<your-insight>
```

## Development certificates for HTTPS

To run the application in HTTPS mode, you need to generate a certificate. The certificate is generated by
the `mkcert` tool using a prepared script.

Steps to set up your certificates:

1. Install [`mkcert` tool](https://github.com/FiloSottile/mkcert?tab=readme-ov-file#installation).
   TL;DR for macOS: `brew install mkcert` (and `brew install nss` for FireFox support).
2. Run `rush install-certs`. It will ask for your password to install the root certificate.
