libs/api-model-bear/README.md, before:

# GoodData Platform REST API request and response models

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@gooddata/api-model-bear)](https://www.npmjs.com/@gooddata/api-model-bear)&nbsp;
[![npm monthly downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@gooddata/api-model-bear)](https://npmcharts.com/compare/@gooddata/api-model-bear?minimal=true)&nbsp;
![typescript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-first-blue?logo=typescript)

This package contains TypeScript definitions for [GoodData Platform](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/platform_intro.html) (codename `bear`) REST API request and response types and functions
which operate directly on top of the different request and response objects.

This is a companion package of the [`@gooddata/api-client-bear`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gooddata/sdk-backend-bear) which implements the actual client and uses
types and functions implemented herein.

## Migration guide

This package was created from `@gooddata/typings`. See [migration guide](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/migration_guide_8.html)
for more information about the changes in the package.

## License

(C) 2017-2022 GoodData Corporation

This project is under MIT License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/gooddata/gooddata-ui-sdk/blob/master/libs/api-model-bear/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Reference the main repo from package READMEs
This makes it easier for users stumbling upon a package on npm
to get more context quickly.

JIRA: RAIL-4496

libs/api-model-bear/README.md, after:

# GoodData Platform REST API request and response models

[![npm version](https://img.shields.io/npm/v/@gooddata/api-model-bear)](https://www.npmjs.com/@gooddata/api-model-bear)&nbsp;
[![npm monthly downloads](https://img.shields.io/npm/dm/@gooddata/api-model-bear)](https://npmcharts.com/compare/@gooddata/api-model-bear?minimal=true)&nbsp;
![typescript](https://img.shields.io/badge/typescript-first-blue?logo=typescript)

This package is a part of the [GoodData.UI SDK](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/about_gooddataui.html).
To learn more, check [the source monorepo](https://github.com/gooddata/gooddata-ui-sdk).

This package contains TypeScript definitions for [GoodData Platform](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/platform_intro.html) (codename `bear`) REST API request and response types and functions
which operate directly on top of the different request and response objects.

This is a companion package of the [`@gooddata/api-client-bear`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@gooddata/sdk-backend-bear) which implements the actual client and uses
types and functions implemented herein.

## Migration guide

This package was created from `@gooddata/typings`. See [migration guide](https://sdk.gooddata.com/gooddata-ui/docs/migration_guide_8.html)
for more information about the changes in the package.

## License

(C) 2017-2022 GoodData Corporation

This project is under MIT License. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/gooddata/gooddata-ui-sdk/blob/master/libs/api-model-bear/LICENSE).
